it's been more than two weeks since
Israel began deploying forces to the
border with Gaza many senior commanders
and politicians have promised the
outright destruction of Hamas but as
Victoria Gaton reports the divisions
within Israel's political leadership are
creating challenges of their
own a show of unity from Israeli Prime
Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and his
senior military
leaders we are working together as one
fist for one goal to eliminate Hamas we
back up each other and we back up the
IDF our Fighters and commanders the
infighting in the wartime cabinet has
dominated Israeli media amid the
lengthening weight for the planned
invasion of
Gaza in the meantime a show of force
from the Navy on board is Israeli
defense minister yav Galant who's called
for
patience keep preparing for our
operation it will happen soon we are
preparing thoroughly for the next step a
multilateral operation by airr and see
do your work get ready we will need
you rows of tanks are lined up at the
border with Gaza most standing idle for
the
moment as Israel plans and prepares for
what could be a far wider War small
teams of troops are already operating
inside
Gaza during the night there were raids
by Tank and infantry forces these raids
kill squads of terrorists who are
preparing for the next stages of the war
these are that take place deep past the
contact
line but the relationship between
Israel's military and its civilian
government has grown
complicated opinion polls show the prime
minister is far from popular and many
Israelis want him to publicly take
responsibility for the security failures
on October the
[Music]
7th this Israeli soldier angered by the
failure to prevent the Hamas attacks was
removed from an army base Netanyahu was
visiting Israel's military is making it
clear that it's ready to fight
conducting live fire drills as it waits
for the country's fractious political
leadership to give the goahead for the
next stage in its offensive Victoria
gonb Al
jazer Gideon Levy is a columnist at
harat's newspaper you're joining us from
Tel Aviv Gideon it's good to have you on
the program give us your thoughts on the
divisions within Israeli Society which
were very apparent before all of this
began uh weeks and weeks months in fact
of protests against Netanyahu for
completely different reasons but the
divisions were apparent your thoughts on
how this could impact how the Prime
Minister chooses to conduct this
war not sure it will impact his
conduction of the war but I have no
doubts that once the war will be over
his time will be over I don't see him
recovering ing from the Fiasco I don't
see people just getting used to the fact
that he will continue to be prime
minister after this Fiasco the big
change right now after all those months
of protest against him is that the
protest is much wider now even though
outspoken because more and more
right-wingers say in closed rooms they
don't come out yet but they all say the
same we cannot continue with this man
and the failure is so clear and him not
taking any responsibility for the
failure will have to exploit I guess it
will wait until the war will will be
over but if God forbid there will be
another Fiasco like it was on the 7th of
October then he will have to go at once
I mean his time is now very very limited
and my guess is that that he knows it
but you say it probably won't change the
decision making from
Netanyahu in the short
term yeah because nobody everyone agrees
that that's not the time to change prime
minister even though one can
also put doubts on this assumption but
let's say that's the general assumption
and if so he have until now at least a
card blanch to continue don't forget
that there is as far as I can judge
quite a clear majority in Israel with
all the the eagerness to take reveng
over Hamas there is quite a c lanch for
the Army to act including a ground
operation people I think most of the
people are supporting it and he can
continue with his policy but as I said
not forever and not in an unconditioned
way is the prime minister is Benjamin
Netanyahu still on the same page as all
the other major figures who are decision
makers in this war particularly the Army
Chief no no look there are two real
decision
makers in this war from the side of of
Israel one is President Joe Biden and
the other one is the prime minister
Benjamin nany and I'm not even sure that
they share the responsibility equally
but in any case it's about netan nany
was always is very
authorative and quite lonely in in in
decision making and this is also the
process now I don't think he trusts
anybody around him I don't think he
takes advises from anyone around him he
leads it for the good and for the bad
what is the Israeli public being told
about the next steps in the military
operations we are being told that the
next step will be the ground
operation we are being told that it
might take long what we are not being
told is what will be the day after
because nobody knows what will be the
day after we are not being told except
of a hollow cliches what is the goal
because you know the goal of crashing
Hamas is a legitimate goal but we all
know or at least we are supposed to know
that this will never be will be achieved
ask the Americans who try to change
regimes in so many countries in the
world it always failed and it always
ended with a terrible War ask Israel who
try to change regimes in Lebanon in in
the occupied territories in Gaza it
doesn't work and for sure not by force
but in the current atmosphere in Israel
when there is this eagerness to punish
Kamas which I understand and to take
revenge nobody can stop it Gideon Levy
it's great to have you on the program
today thank you very much for joining us
uh columnist at haret Israeli newspaper
thank you very much
Gideon thank you